>> Will Sentance: All right, we're
gonna just a brief interlude in this so
that we can discover how
JavaScript thinks about functions.
And whether it thinks about functions,
like user creator, in such a way
that they give us a little place,
a little object,
into which we can store our functions and
know that JavaScript will
make the bond to that object.
To understand that we need to understand
one of the most puzzling
things in JavaScript.
Although I think after
a bit it becomes familiar.
But one of the most puzzling
things in JavaScript,
that functions are both objects and
functions.
Let's see it.
We're gonna map this out over here
in our little bonus bit of board,
with a new memory over here.
I'm gonna try and write this way.
What here are we doing,
Elliot, in line one?
>> Elliot: Declaring a new function,
multiplyBy2.
>> Will Sentance: Declaring a function,
There it is, saved as a function.
Perfect.
Next line?
What's there to do, Elliott?
>> Elliot: Add a new property, store it.
>> Will Sentance: But it's a function.
>> Elliot: Also an object.
>> Will Sentance: Okay.
>> Will Sentance: That is right.
It turns out that as soon as we saved
with the keyword function multiplyBy2
as a function, it instantly got
attached to it a whole object.
As soon as you declare
a function in JavaScript,
it is a function,
what I call function-object combo.
They are never functions alone,
they are function-object combos.
Now most of the time we don't really care
because we don't really use the function's
object bits.
But we absolutely are in
object-oriented programming.
So as soon as you declare multiplyBy2
it is, yes, a function, okay.
But immediately it also is an object.
And if you use what type of notation,
Elliot, to get the object bit?
>> Elliot: Dot.
>> Will Sentance: If you use dot notation
you're going to access its object form,
and
we're gonna assign the property five.
But maybe, Elliot,
that having this object and
assigning stored to it,
maybe that overwrote the function part.
Maybe now if we try and
call multiplyBy2 with the input of three,
we gonna find multiplyBy2,
it's an object, it's not a function.
Or what, what do you think, Elliot?
Can we still do this?
We absolutely still can.
We access the function piece
with our what symbols?
How do we access the function piece, Nick?
>> Elliot: With the-
>> Will Sentance: With the parenthesis,
exactly.
That does not lose its
access to the object piece.
Let's see in the next line.
Elliott, talk me through JavaScript's
journey here in this next line.
We look up multipleBy2 in?
>> Elliot: Global memory.
>> Will Sentance: In global memory.
And then we use dot notation to
access multiplied by, we find it,
it's a function-object combo.
And what, Elliot, which bit of it do
we look for when we use a dot notation?
>> Elliot: The property?
>> Will Sentance: We
look on its object bit-
>> Will Sentance: In its function-object
combo, where we find the property what?
>> Elliot: Stored.
>> Will Sentance: Stored, beautiful,
and we assign to it?
>> Elliot: Five.
>> Will Sentance: Here is where we access
the number five.
So this is what actually happens
when we defined a function.
In fact over here when we
declared user creator earlier,
here's what we actually declared,
a function-object combo.
A function object combo.
>> Will Sentance: An object,
a function, an object.
This reminds me of that bit when
Steve Jobs launches the iPhone.
I don't know if you've
watched that many many times.
An object is slightly more underwhelming
than the launch of the iPhone,
I think I got some slight
delusions of grandeur there.
An object, well what do we
need to store our functions?
That we want this function when called
with a new key word to return our objects
for those objects to have a bond to
some object full of functions, and
we don't know where to
put those functions.
Because we can't put them in an object and
give them a name like we used to.
What if we, if we've got a function
object combo, what if they were.
Now actually what it turns out is when
you declare a function, in other words
a function-object combo, you actually get
in that object automatically a property.
Can anyone figure out
what that property is?
Seth, can you figure out
what the property is?
>> Seth: Prototype?
>> Will Sentance: Prototype, it is just
a regular property, people, it is not.
You've heard the phrasing
a thousand times from developers,
the function's prototype,
as though it's some special thing.
No, it is the function in its object form
of its function-object
combo property prototype.
It is nothing more magic than that, it is
a regular property on the function in its
object format, the function-object combo.
One second, Neil, I promise.
And that is automatically an object, and
it's actually this big old empty object
here that we might want to use
to put all our functions in.
Such that when I call user creator,
>> Will Sentance: When I call
user creator with the new key word and it
makes me my object inside automatically,
we're gonna walk through all of this,
so not fear.
Makes me my object automatically inside.
It's automatically gonna make its bond or
we can't manually make its bond to
something called user functionStore.
Instead it's automatically,
by the very nature the new key word,
gonna make its bond to the name of
the function in its object format on
the prototype property,
that big old empty object.
Meaning we better put our functions in
there that we want the object that gets
returned out to have access to.
So we're gonna walk through this line by
line to make it really, really clear.
All right, so we could use a father
all functions have by default
a property on their object
version known as prototype,
which is itself an object to replace
our user function store object.